{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier New;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12000\viewh8400\f0\fs20\cf1 [\line
  \{\line
    "idea_rank": 1,\line
    "idea_name": "Mental Health Crisis Early-Warning System: Social Media Distress Signal Monitor",\line
    "idea_summary": "The first implementation approach focuses on mining social media platforms for real-time distress signals at the neighborhood level. Using NLP models trained on mental health crisis language, the system continuously processes public posts from Twitter/X, Reddit community boards, and Nextdoor neighborhood groups, flagging surges in distress-related keywords, phrases, and sentiment patterns. These signals are aggregated by ZIP code and combined with CDC BRFSS baseline mental health prevalence data to produce a weekly distress index. When a ZIP code\\u2019s index exceeds a threshold, the system alerts crisis coordinators and community health workers to increase outreach in that area. The approach is purely signal-side \\u2014 it detects demand before it becomes a formal crisis call, operating in the earliest warning layer of the system.",\line
    "information_story": "Residents in a Seattle neighborhood post about job loss and hopelessness across local social media groups. Each post looks isolated, but distress keywords have spiked 340% over ten days. No crisis worker sees the pattern. Three weeks later, the local crisis line is overwhelmed. The system would have flagged the surge on day three and dispatched a community health worker before it escalated to 911 calls.",\line
    "possible_information_structure": "ZIP-code-level weekly distress signal record: zip_code (string), week_start_date (ISO 8601), week_end_date (ISO 8601), total_posts_analyzed (int), distress_keyword_hit_rate (float 0-1), sentiment_distress_score (float 0-1), week_over_week_change_pct (float), brfss_baseline_poor_mental_health_days (float), composite_distress_index (float 0-100), alert_threshold_exceeded (boolean), recommended_action (enum: Monitor / Increase Outreach / Deploy Community Health Worker / Escalate to Crisis Coordinator), data_source (string array). Delivered as JSON via weekly API and CSV for coordinators."\line
  \},\line
  \{\line
    "idea_rank": 2,\line
    "idea_name": "Mental Health Crisis Early-Warning System: 211 Call Volume Forecaster",\line
    "idea_summary": "The second implementation approach focuses on the 211 crisis call system itself \\u2014 using historical call volume data, caller demographics, call reason codes, and seasonal patterns to build a time-series forecasting model that predicts when and where call volume will exceed crisis line capacity. SAMHSA public crisis call datasets and city-level 211 call logs are used to train ARIMA and LSTM models that generate 2-4 week ahead forecasts at the county and ZIP code level. The model incorporates leading economic indicators \\u2014 weekly unemployment insurance claims, SNAP application spikes, utility shutoff notices \\u2014 as exogenous variables that historically precede mental health call surges.",\line
    "information_story": "Every January, King County\\u2019s crisis line gets overwhelmed by a post-holiday call surge \\u2014 but managers never know exactly when it will peak or how severe it will be. In January 2023, the surge arrived four days early. Fourteen callers were put on hold for over thirty minutes; two hung up and never called back. The forecaster would have detected the October unemployment spike as a leading indicator and issued a staffing recommendation on December 28th, before the surge arrived.",\line
    "possible_information_structure": "Weekly call-volume forecast record: geography_id (FIPS or ZIP), forecast_generated_date (ISO 8601), forecast_target_week_start (ISO 8601), forecast_target_week_end (ISO 8601), historical_avg_weekly_calls (float), predicted_call_volume (int), predicted_vs_capacity_ratio (float), overflow_risk_tier (enum: Low / Moderate / High / Critical), leading_indicator_ui_claims_change_pct (float), model_confidence_score (float 0-1), staffing_recommendation (string), forecast_model_version (string). Delivered as JSON via weekly API and PDF briefing for non-technical managers."\line
  \},\line
  \{\line
    "idea_rank": 3,\line
    "idea_name": "Mental Health Crisis Early-Warning System: Emergency Dispatch + Care Gap Mapper",\line
    "idea_summary": "The third implementation approach focuses on emergency dispatch logs and maps them against the supply side of mental health care to identify where crisis demand is already exceeding available services, block by block. City open-data emergency dispatch records are parsed to extract mental-health-related incidents, then overlaid with a real-time inventory of mental health care availability: crisis bed counts, community mental health center appointment wait times, and mobile crisis team deployment locations.",\line
    "information_story": "On one Friday night in Seattle\\u2019s Central District, dispatch logs recorded eleven mental-health-related calls within six blocks. Eight were handled by police because no mobile crisis team was available. Two of the three people transported to a psychiatric facility were turned away due to capacity. All of this data existed in separate systems that never talked to each other. The mapper would have flagged that zone as critical by 6pm \\u2014 before the calls started \\u2014 and pre-positioned a mobile team nearby.",\line
    "possible_information_structure": "Census-block-group-level care gap record updated daily: census_block_group_fips (string), date (ISO 8601), mental_health_dispatch_incidents_7day (int), dispatch_trend_7day_change_pct (float), crisis_beds_available_within_5mi (int), mobile_crisis_teams_available_now (int), care_gap_score (float 0-100), care_gap_tier (enum: Adequate / Strained / Gap / Critical Gap), predicted_gap_tier_in_14_days (string), recommended_preposition_action (string), data_freshness_dispatch (ISO 8601), data_freshness_bed_availability (ISO 8601). Delivered as GeoJSON for mapping dashboards, JSON for hospital systems, and daily CSV for city briefings."\line
  \}\line
]\line}
